ok ladies and gentlemen we found the
source of all evil I got the cap off
this one cover I took it off and look
what I found this is the gasket actually
there is a gasket
that because of that gasket the oil will
leak this gasket is dry and was broken
in couple of places and he's not holding
the oil anymore and what happened is the
oil is circulates in pressure and start
to leak from the sides and get to the
outside of the gasket and leaks out
that's why we see signs of oil on the
sides that's where it's going to come
out from this section here you gotta be
very well sealed and when the oil in the
temperature no hot temperature from the
motor and everything the gasket dries
out and just breaks and stop stop
separating stop holding the oil in
that's what caused the leak so you got
it now what I'm gonna do is I'm going to
replace of course this gasket I'm going
to clean everything real good I'm going
to inspect everything I'm gonna check
everything in the motor I'm gonna do it
very slowly and take my time you don't
want to put everything back together
crank the motor and guess what you look
on the bottom and you see an oil paddle
this gasket probably I would say under
20 bucks is the worst case scenario
original Mercedes and the $20 part and
you have to spend a couple of days I'm
taking the motor out in a couple of days
I'm putting everything together so there
you go this is s600
the motor oil leak repair so far you got
all the information I hope if you don't
have all the information and you have
any questions I've done it already so
I can answer you the questions if you
run into the problem and you were doing
the job right to me I will respond
immediately and do everything I can to
try and help you so if you have the same
problem on a s600 the Mercedes Benz this
600 if you got oil leaking from the
motor and you're not sure where it's
coming from and of course it's not
somewhere from the bottom of the motor
that you can identify immediately
something that you can identify it you
don't know where it's coming from but
you see oil leaking and the situation
gets worse and worse shoot me a line
write me something down right there on
the bottom you see there is a place for
comments write me something there I'll
respond as soon as I can I'll help you
out try to help you if you run into any
problems but again here is the motor
take a good look at that here's the
problem to get to be able to replace fix
that problem you do have to take the
heads out and after you take the heads
out and of course the intake manifold
valve covers everything else I put one
of the heads here I flipped it upside
down gently lower it down to make sure
that the valves are not bending I got
the leuco so if you can see one of the
valves it's discolored I need to inspect
it and see what happened what caused it
it's not something usual you see all the
other but a decent color these two kind
of off color a little bit so I'm going
to check that I'm going to look at the
aluminum on the heads make sure that
there are hundred percents leveled and
good if I need to take him to a machine
shop and make sure that there is no
leaks no compression those compression
run off or anything like that I'm gonna
have to redo the head so hopefully not
but I'll inspected I'll clean them of
course this is the cover that stands and
hold everything inside where the oil is
actually leaking from these are
breathers nipples nothing major the oil
leak is not coming from there the only
is coming exactly from here that's
exactly where it comes from and I'm
going to start in order all the parts
and put everything back together and
once I put everything back together of
course it's gonna take me at least maybe
three more days to put everything
together working for five hours a day
cleaning the motor of course I need to
clean the motor there is a lot of things
it's not gonna depend on me but I think
the heads to the shop and see if
everything is good there I'm gonna have
to clean the cylinders inspect each one
of them individually make sure there are
no wow I don't know if compression
compression lost due to any failure one
of the cylinders I'm gonna have to clean
everything real cool good of course if
you do a job like that you want to make
sure that everything is clean I'm gonna
drop the oil put new oil in so there is
still a lot of work it's not done
putting everything together though is
exciting I'm glad I got to the source of
the problem now you can do that too and
I don't know what the the blocks and
everything talking about replacing the
oil cooler I don't think the oil cooler
need to be replaced this is basically
the oil cooler by the way
oil flows in here and since it's got you
see it'll kind of like your radiator oil
runs inside and gets cooled and then it
keeps on circulating when the gasket
here dries out start to lose feel the
oil start to leak out the only way to
fix it is to take the heads out
unfortunately there's no other way if
there was any other way I would have
done this but I can't see any other way
to do that okay that's it that's it for
now when I started to put everything
back together I'll show you maybe I'll
speed the process and took a little lace
sorry for talking so much just I think
it's got to be informational you know
the old a YouTube that I've done
together probably I don't know if you
get irrelevant together maybe an hour
and a half but it reflects about maybe
so far 15 hours 14 hours of work so I
squeezed everything down try to be as
informative as I can be so if you do the
same job you have the information that
you need so if you run into problems or
anything you can solve the problems but
that's it still letting you look around
seeing everything so you get
few more seconds instead of pausing the
screen you can just look at the motor
look at how everything looks feel the
things around and of course get a little
help guidance on how to fix the problem
mercedes-benz s 600 2001 oil leak on the
back of the motor we found the reason
we're going to fix it and put everything
back together you got any questions or
comment write me a line thank you very
much for watching good luck